As your data science initiative grows in scope,
it can be a challenge to maintain a high level view of
the specific roles of people on your data science team,
the roles of people outside your data science team who nevertheless assist on projects,
and your executive stakeholders.
I use a tool called the Data Science Heatmap to do just that.
The Data Science Heatmap specifies individuals involved in
data science initiatives according to their specific roles,
their levels of expertise, and their experience.
The Data Science Heatmap specifies roles at three levels of competency.
The apprentice has limited experience,
and their focus tends to be on the job training.
The apprentice understands terminology and basic principles of data science,
and how to access and use reference materials in the context of a data science project.
The fellow is an intermediate competency.
The fellow is able to complete tasks in data science,
but may need help from a master occasionally.
Finally, the master competency can apply skills without assistance,
and tends to be at the senior level.
The master is skilled at leading data science initiatives,
and is a subject matter expert in the area represented by her specific role.
Roles on the Data Science Heatmap are broken into three categories.
First, core roles include the seven roles mentioned in
the building out the bench section of this lesson: the data scientist,
machine learning engineer, data analyst, data engineer,
data visualization engineer, software engineer,
and the analytics translator.
The second section includes adjunct roles,
those outside the data science group who nevertheless make
key contributions towards carrying out the data science project.
These include full-stack engineers,
front-end engineers, back-end engineers,
UI/UX engineers, business analysts, and security engineers.
Finally, the third section includes the executive stakeholders for the project.
These might include the CEO,
the Chief Analytics Officer,
the Chief Data Officer,
business unit heads, and leaders of functional area units.